hyperledger-fabric/marble-private-client/README.md, before:

# marble-private-client
This is a sample client app for Hyperledger Fabric.  Implemented using the [TIBCO Flogo® Enterprise](https://docs.tibco.com/products/tibco-flogo-enterprise-2-4-0), this app interacts with the Hyperledger Fabric chaincode [`marble-private`](../marble-private) and exposes a set of REST APIs for managing private data collections on the marble blockchain network.

## Build and start the marble-private fabric network
First, complete the prerequisites as described in [`marble-private`](../marble-private).

Then, build and deploy the marble-private chaincode (assuming that the `fabric-samples` are installed under your `$GOPATH`):
```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/TIBCOSoftware/dovetail-contrib/hyperledger-fabric/marble-private
make create
make deploy
```

Start Hyperledger Fabric first-network with CouchDB:
```
cd $GOPATH//src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/first-network
./byfn.sh up -s couchdb
```

Use the `cli` container to install the `marble_private_cc` chaincode on all 4 peers of `org1` and `org2`, and then instantiate it.
```
docker exec -it cli bash
. scripts/utils.sh
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc
setGlobals 1 1
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc
setGlobals 0 2
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc
setGlobals 1 2
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc

ORDERER_ARGS="-o orderer.example.com:7050 --tls --cafile /opt/gopath/src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric/peer/crypto/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem"
peer chaincode instantiate $ORDERER_ARGS -C mychannel -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -c '{"Args":["init"]}' -P "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')" --collections-config /opt/gopath/src/github.com/chaincode/marbles02_private/collections_config.json
```

## Build and start the marble-private-client app
Create, build and start the marble-private-client app from the model file [`marble_private_lient.json`](marble_private_client.json):
```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/TIBCOSoftware/dovetail-contrib/hyperledger-fabric/marble-private-client
make create
make build
make run
```

The step for `create` may take a few minutes because it uses `dep` to analyze and fetch Go dependencies, and `dep` is slow.  This issue will be resolved in a future Flogo release when `dep` is replaced by `Go modules`.  Sometimes, `dep` may fail on the first try, in which case, you may manually execute the `dep` one more time, i.e.,
```
cd marbleprivate_client/src/marbleprivate_client
dep ensure -v -update
cd ../..
```

## Test marble-private-client app
This app implements a set of REST APIs:
- **Create Marble** (PUT): it creates a new marble.
- **Transfer Marble** (PUT): it transfers a marble to a new owner.
- **Delete Marble** (DELETE): it deletes the state of a specified marble.
- **Get Marble** (GET): it retrieves a marble record by its key.
- **Get Marble Price** (GET): it retrieves a marble's private details by its key.
- **Query By Owner** (GET): it queries marble records by an owner name.
- **Query By Range** (GET): it retrieves marble records in a specified range of keys.

You may use the following commands to test the behavior of these REST APIs.  If you do not like command-line `curl`, you may download and use a REST client tool to submit these REST requests.  For Mac users, the [`Advanced Rest client`](https://install.advancedrestclient.com/install) is pretty user-friendly.

```
# insert test data
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble1","color":"blue","size":35,"owner":"tom","price":99}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/create
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/key/marble1
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/price/marble1

# more inserts and transfer owner, test purge of private marble1 after 3 blocks
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble2","color":"red","size":50,"owner":"tom","price":199}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/create
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble3","color":"blue","size":70,"owner":"tom","price":299}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/create
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble2","owner":"jerry"}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/transfer
# marble1 pricing is still available
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/price/marble1
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble3","owner":"jerry"}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/transfer
# marble1 private detail is purged after 3 blocks, so this returns error
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/price/marble1

# test query and delete
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/owner/jerry
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/range?startKey=marble1&endKey=marble4
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/delete/marble2
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/owner/jerry
```

## Cleanup the marble-private fabric network
Stop and cleanup the Fabric `first-network`.
```
cd $GOPATH//src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/first-network
./byfn.sh down
docker rm $(docker ps -a | grep dev-peer | awk '{print $1}')
docker rmi $(docker images | grep dev-peer | awk '{print $3}')
```

Commit message:

end-to-end test for marble-private client

hyperledger-fabric/marble-private-client/README.md, after:

# marble-private-client
This is a sample client app for Hyperledger Fabric.  Implemented using the [TIBCO Flogo® Enterprise](https://docs.tibco.com/products/tibco-flogo-enterprise-2-4-0), this app interacts with the Hyperledger Fabric chaincode [`marble-private`](../marble-private) and exposes a set of REST APIs for managing private data collections on the marble blockchain network.

## Build and start the marble-private fabric network
First, complete the prerequisites as described in [`marble-private`](../marble-private).

Then, build and deploy the marble-private chaincode (assuming that the `fabric-samples` are installed under your `$GOPATH`):
```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/TIBCOSoftware/dovetail-contrib/hyperledger-fabric/marble-private
make create
make deploy
```

Start Hyperledger Fabric first-network with CouchDB:
```
cd $GOPATH//src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/first-network
./byfn.sh up -s couchdb
```

Use the `cli` container to install the `marble_private_cc` chaincode on all 4 peers of `org1` and `org2`, and then instantiate it.
```
docker exec -it cli bash
. scripts/utils.sh
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc
setGlobals 1 1
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc
setGlobals 0 2
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc
setGlobals 1 2
peer chaincode install -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -p github.com/chaincode/marble_private_cc

ORDERER_ARGS="-o orderer.example.com:7050 --tls --cafile /opt/gopath/src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric/peer/crypto/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem"
peer chaincode instantiate $ORDERER_ARGS -C mychannel -n marble_private_cc -v 1.0 -c '{"Args":["init"]}' -P "OR ('Org1MSP.peer','Org2MSP.peer')" --collections-config /opt/gopath/src/github.com/chaincode/marbles02_private/collections_config.json
```

## Build and start the marble-private-client app
Create, build and start the marble-private-client app from the model file [`marble_private_lient.json`](marble_private_client.json):
```
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/TIBCOSoftware/dovetail-contrib/hyperledger-fabric/marble-private-client
make create
make build
make run
```

The step for `create` may take a few minutes because it uses `dep` to analyze and fetch Go dependencies, and `dep` is slow.  This issue will be resolved in a future Flogo release when `dep` is replaced by `Go modules`.  Sometimes, `dep` may fail on the first try, in which case, you may manually execute the `dep` one more time, i.e.,
```
cd marbleprivate_client/src/marbleprivate_client
dep ensure -v -update
cd ../..
```

## Test marble-private-client app
This app implements a set of REST APIs:
- **Create Marble** (PUT): it creates a new marble.
- **Transfer Marble** (PUT): it transfers a marble to a new owner.
- **Delete Marble** (DELETE): it deletes the state of a specified marble.
- **Get Marble** (GET): it retrieves a marble record by its key.
- **Get Marble Price** (GET): it retrieves a marble's private details by its key.
- **Query By Owner** (GET): it queries marble records by an owner name.
- **Query By Range** (GET): it retrieves marble records in a specified range of keys.

You may use the following commands to test the behavior of these REST APIs.  If you do not like command-line `curl`, you may download and use a REST client tool to submit these REST requests.  For Mac users, the [`Advanced Rest client`](https://install.advancedrestclient.com/install) is pretty user-friendly.

```
# insert test data
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble1","color":"blue","size":35,"owner":"tom","price":99}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/create
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/key/marble1
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/price/marble1

# more inserts and transfer owner, test purge of private marble1 after 3 blocks
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble2","color":"red","size":50,"owner":"tom","price":199}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/create
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble3","color":"blue","size":70,"owner":"tom","price":299}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/create
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble2","owner":"jerry"}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/transfer
# marble1 pricing is still available
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/price/marble1
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"name":"marble3","owner":"jerry"}' http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/transfer
# marble1 private detail is purged after 3 blocks, so this returns error
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/price/marble1

# test query and delete
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/owner/jerry
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/range?startKey=marble1&endKey=marble4
curl -X DELETE http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/delete/marble2
curl -X GET http://localhost:8989/marbleprivate/owner/jerry
```

Note that the operations for `delete` and `price` is allowed by only one of the 2 blockchain member orgs (i.e., org1 only), thus these 2 operations should use a special client configuration such that the client communicates with org1 peers only.  This sample, however, is configured to pick any peer randomly for each request, and so it will fail when a peer node of org2 is used.  You may retry the same request a few times to see the effect of security control for these 2 operations.

## Cleanup the marble-private fabric network
Stop and cleanup the Fabric `first-network`.
```
cd $GOPATH//src/github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/first-network
./byfn.sh down
docker rm $(docker ps -a | grep dev-peer | awk '{print $1}')
docker rmi $(docker images | grep dev-peer | awk '{print $3}')
```
